This Project involves implementing and testing various sorting algorithms experimentally to determine their real-world running times. In particular, First i implemented each of the following sorting algorithms:

Insertion-sort
Merge-sort
Shellsort (4 versions)
Hybrid sort (using merge-sort and insertion-sort, using 3 different cutoff points)

Second, I have to experimentally evaluate each of the above algorithms and report on my findings in a written report. For each implementation, I perform runtime experiments on different permutations, with multiple runs for each problem size, for increasing problem sizes. Specifically, I need to do a set of experiments for each of the following distributions:

**Uniformly distributed permutations**, that is, permutations of the numbers, 1,2,3,...,n, where all permutations are equally likely.
**Almost-sorted permutations**. These are generated by starting with a sorted array/vector of n numbers, say, the numbers 1,2,3,...,n, in this order. Then, independently choose 2log n pairs, (i,j), where i and j are uniformly-chosen random integers in the range from 0 to n-1, and swap the numbers at positions i and j in the array/vector.
**Reverse sorted permutation**. This is the permutation (n,n-1,n-2,...,3,2,1).

I test 5 to 10 runs for each of a growing sequence of input sizes (e.g., 100, 500, 1000, 2500, 5000, ...), for each algorithm-input-sequence combination, average those running times, and then plot results on log-log plots. I Produce a report write-up that explains the algorithms I implemented, and reports findings Please see more deatails here https://github.com/acerooyan/sorting-algorithms/blob/main/Sorting_Algorithms.pdf.
